Hello welcome back to that bonce course in our programming.
Today we will talk about a very interesting topic.
We will be looking at adding our own functions into the plie family functions so kind of nesting our
own functions within the ply family functions.
And as you can imagine from the of family function a very powerful Well nesting our own functions within
apply functions is incredibly incredibly powerful.
One of the most powerful techniques that exists in our.
So let's get started.
Let's see what this is all about.
All right so here we've got El apply and we're applying it to the weather bestride.
So what can we say here.
For instance we've looked at Romains right.
Roe means when we do that we take every component of the weather list which is indeed a matrix and then
we apply the Romans function to that matrix and the output is a list with those results.
If I run this and I have a look here you'll see that we've created a list of four components Chicago
New York Houston and San Francisco.
And every one of these components is a named vector with the averages of the rows of the sociate at
Matrix that it was in the original list which was weather.
And now we've already seen this.
Well what Israel means Romeos is a predefined function in our what we can do is we can replace this
function with our own.
Nobody said we can just put in our own function in there.
And that's exactly what we're going to do.
So we'll start off an easy one we'll say l applied weather and here we're going to create on function
how do we create functions.
So that's something we discussed in the basic course sonar our and on our programming A to Zed to function
you just type in the word function.
Then you need to say how many arguments it will have and with Apply family functions you always need
this one argument because that is what's the Apply or the Apply function will be iterating over.
So weather has components so this is a individual components that apply will be extracting from weather
and analyzing separately.
Right.
So and we'll see that in action just now.
Now you can do whatever you like with this component so this is right after you say function whatever
comes between this closing bracket this component and this closing bracket for the L function.
So anything that you type in here basically is the body of your function.
I know it's not as structured as you'd expect like C or other languages but that's pretty much it that's
how you will find that most of the users of our will type up their code so it's something that is worth
getting used to.
So there we go again going to say X that we're going to say one common nothing what will this give us
.
This is basically this is all function and we're saying so now for every component of weather which
is a matrix we want this to happen.
So basically you want to use this function and the function what it does is it takes a component which
can be Chicago New York Houston or San Francisco and then it will apply the square brackets with one
common nothing to it.
So what it will do is give us the first row of every one of these matrices and then they will be put
into a list and sent off as a result of this line around that exactly what we were expecting.
Right so there is our very first row of every one of these matrices.
All right.
So let's try something else let's say fifth row because that's hours of sunshine.
Everybody loves sunshine.
So let's put in five here.
What is that.
Yes.
That gives us the fifth row of every one of those matrices.
And they have been put into a separate list.
OK.
And what else can we do.
We can do something similar and we can say let's look at December for every single one of these matrices
.
So those are the metrics for December because December is a 12 month.
We're looking at all the rows we have nothing here comma 12 so 12 months.
So there we go.
That's December for a Chicago symbol for New York December for Houston and December for San Francisco
.
All right.
So is this something a bit more complex.
Let's say we want to take all of this just type it up just for practice.
I'll apply a weather function and then X is combined.
You don't have to name it.
You can name it Zed.
The same is said for a change.
And here we want to say Zad square brackets want to come a nothing.
So I'm just going to actually bring up weather here so that we know what we're dealing with.
So let's look at Chicago.
We're going to take the average high temperature in Fahrenheit and we're going to subtract the average
low temperature in Fahrenheit.
Right so we look at the difference.
So we're going to say Zed 1 come or nothing which is the first real minus Zed to come in I think.
And for that now you have the difference.
So if I look at the top for Chicago is 32 minus 18 which is 14 36 and minus 21 which makes it 15.
So let's have a look here 14 and 15.
So that is a difference in degrees Fahrenheit between the average high temperature for that month and
the average so average high temperature across the years that we have had in the data set or that were
participated in this analysis originally because we got the data set with these averages already.
So basically the difference between the average temperature and chanted the average high temperature
in January and the average low temperature in January and degrees Fahrenheit.
All right.
So that is how you calculate the difference.
Now what we want to do is we want to change this difference into a decimal right so we want to look
at the relative change so that we can compare them.
How do we do that.
Well in deliverable two we were asked for is how we're by how the temperature fluctuates each month
from minimum to maximum and we need to take the minimum temperature as the base.
All right so we're going to take that one minus two.
We'll put it in brackets and then we will divide by the base divide by the basis again.
So bracket's divide by the base closes brackets and then we want to also obviously round because otherwise
it would be too many decimal points or else run like that funnel.
So you can see a lot of decimal points.
So that's for now this round it round.
We want to take this comma two decimal points around that.
There we go.
So now we can see how the temperature fluctuates so the difference between the minimum and the maximum
temperature or low and the high there was observed in that month low on average across many years so
you can see in Chicago it fluctuates by 78 percent in January.
Right so that is a huge difference.
Whereas in other places it looks like mostly it's 24 percent 20 percent in someplace in New York.
So 20 percent isn't generally speaking that much.
When you compare it to something like 78 percent but who else has to take into account that this is
Fahrenheit and it doesn't convert leniently to Celsius.
So there's all these little nuances that you have to keep in mind but that's more of domain knowledge
.
The main thing here is that we have come up with this result that we have been looking for so let's
put a comment here saying that this is what we are kind of after.
So this is deliverable to temperature fluctuations.
But at the same time we will improve it.
Right.
It's not ideal because it's in a list and it's not very presentable right now.
We do have the result but we can make it better and we will see how to make it better in upcoming.
But basically that's how you create your own functions to work with components of a list and then use
the Apply functions to apply your functions to those components or we list.
Very very powerful technique.
So definitely have a play around with that.
See what other options or other things you might come up with in terms of working with these matrices
that we have.
So I would just create a function of your own liking.
For instance you could try and divide one of the metrics by the other.
So what do we have here.
We have days of precipitation we have average precipitation in inches maybe try dividing average precipitation
into in inches by the days of precipitation and see if you can create a function which will be similar
to this and then apply it across all components of weather and just check your results see if you get
a good result so that actually matches up to what you were expecting to be calculated.
All right so this brings us to the end of today's tutorial and I look forward to seeing you next.
Until then happy coding
.